Prior to Java 8, an interface never implemented code in a method.
Java 8 introduced default and static methods,
which were followed in a fairly quick succession in Java 9
by private methods introduced on the interface.
You can probably imagine scenarios during the implementation
of default or static methods,
where you'd like to create reusable units of code that are not public
and just used in the context of the current interface.
So, let's explore this in code.
All right, so I'm going to create a new class here.
We're going to call it Advisable.
Okay, there's the code.
All right, so we've got an interface there called advisable
and it's there to support academic advisors at universities.
It's got two enums, we've got a GradeLevel.
We've also got an AcademicLevel.
We've also got an abstract method there called advise.
This is a method of course that all implementing classes must therefore override.
Scrolling on further, we've got two default methods.
Now, these methods as you'll see both repeat code in the switch statement
to get a grade level code suffix,
so the get requirements default method you can see there
that returns an entire course outline.
And scrolling down a bit further, we've got our get class default method
and that returns a class name and ID.
Now looking at that repeated code,
makes the code look tedious and prior to Java 9.
you would have created another default method that returned this data
but that method would be available to any implementing class and maybe
this would be an undesirable effect.
Now, another option would have been wrapping the method in a nested class,
so let's do that here.
So, what I'm going to do is include some code in this interface
that's a nested class, there's our nested class within our interface.
Now, this is a bit better than having to put this code in an additional default method
because I've encapsulated the get level code method
in the nested class as you can see there,
but the nested class itself is implicitly static and public
because it's nested on the interface.
So now that I've done that,
what we can do is replace some code in our default method, so let's go back up and do that.
We'll go up to get requirements first.
What we're going to change is this switch statement here.
Basically, everything from string level code equals until the end of the switch.
I can replace that with this code now using the nested class,
and technically that no longer applies, so I'll also delete that comment.
That's the first one and also we're doing a similar thing down here for our level code.
I'm going to do the same thing; I'm going to paste in the same block of code
that's using our nested class.
Difference here is instead of academic level [i],
we don't need the [i] because the academic level is passed as you can see as
an argument on line 48.
All right, so that's working.
Well at least at this stage, there's no compilation errors.
So, what we're doing now is, we'll paste in another method
which actually exercises the functionality defined
on the advisable interface. i'm going to go down to the end and do that.
Okay, we'll look at our code we pasted it in.
You can see our class private examples implements our advisable interface,
and it's actually got two methods, we'll come back to the main method.
The other method is the advise method.
This is a concrete implementation of the advisable’s interface,
abstract advise method. So, basically overriding
the advisable’s interfaces advise method and it's calling advisable's
getRequirements default method as you can see there
in the system.out.println line
And getting back to our main class then or main function rather,
this invokes the advise method twice
and also calls getClass the default method on the advisable interface as well.
So, let's run this now.
And there's our output.
So, basically, the code at this point is now working but looking at it,
it's still fairly ugly.
So, let's try something else. Let's actually try replacing the nested class
with a simple private method in the interface.
To do that, we're going to go back up to our interface,
the change we're going to make is we're basically going to remove the class at the top here
and down the bottom
then,we'll just reformat the code
and then we'll fix up the other errors that are still appearing as a result.
So, basically, we come up here and we just remove the nested class
name now because we're no longer using it to fix that error.
We can find the other error over here and do the same thing.
So, we're now using a private method on the interface instead of our nested class.
All right, so let's run this to confirm that we've got the same results.
You can see we've done just that; we've got exactly the same results
with now using a private method on the interface.
So, essentially the code with the private method executes as previously
but the changes allowed the method now to be fully encapsulated
without exposing an unnecessary public static nested class,
and that's a good thing.
All right, so let's end the video here and in the next one,
I want to review how the types of interface methods work with each other.
So, I will see you in the next video.